With the
collapse of the temporary truce
between Israel and Hamas
here in the US,
democratic divisions
over the direction of the war
and Biden's support for Israel
are once again on full display.
Here with me
now is House Progressive Caucus
Chairwoman Pramila Jayapal.
Thank you for coming.
It's nice to see you in person.
Let's start with where we are right now
with with the war.
The White House says very clearly
that Hamas is to blame for the collapse
of this temporary truce
for a few reasons.
One is that they refuse
to release the remaining women,
some of whom
sounds like
most of whom are 20 to 30 year old women
there hostage inside Gaza.
They also renewed the military attacks
against Israel.
You have repeatedly called
for Israel to implement
an indefinite cease fire.
But given what we have
just seen with what I just described.
Is that realistic?
Well, it's
what has to happen
and I do think it's realistic.
I think what we saw is after
you know, many weeks
of saying we couldn't
get to a cease fire,
that was not going to happen.
We did have a temporary cease fire.
And what happened,
we were able to see
a significant number of hostages
released.
We were able to get
humanitarian aid into Gaza.
And I think the long term plan for
what happens is incredibly important.
Now, you've seen Vice President
Harris made a very strong
statement yesterday.
Secretary Defense Secretary
Lloyd Austin also was very clear
that if you engage in urban warfare
in the way that Israel did
in northern Gaza,
what you will do is perhaps win
a temporary victory
or a reprieve
but you're not going to win the long term
strategic war.
So the only way, Dana, to get through
this is to make sure that we,
first of all,
do not have the kinds of casualties
that we saw in northern Gaza.
There's no way to do that
with the kind of war that Israel
is waging right now on Gaza.
A couple of things.
One is you said it worked. Yes.
There were hostages who were released,
but it wasn't even an actual hard
cease fire.
They were just trying to get another day
and Hamas wouldn't comply.
So what makes you think that
Hamas would comply with a longer term
cease fire?
Well,
I think this is all about negotiation.
Qatar has been incredibly helpful here.
It's not clear to me from the reporting
who is to blame for
you don't believe
the US,
the Biden administration, that Hamas
Well, I just think it's very complex,
young women.
I think it's very, very complicated.
It's it's not
we don't have all the information
in front of us.
We obviously can,
you know, can rely on some statements
that are made.
But I think that in these negotiations,
everybody wants something.
And I think Qatar has said
that Hamas is still at the table
Israel should still be at the table.
In fact,
some of the hostages are the Israeli
hostages are saying
that Israel should still be at the table
because this is complex.
Negotiation, and it doesn't happen
unless both sides are willing to come
to some kind of an agreement.
That's how we got the first seven days.
That's
that's a really important point
about both sides
being willing to come to an agreement,
because regardless of what has happened
the last week
and let's just say
there is a more permanent cease fire,
you are hearing from Hamas leaders
over and over again
that the brutal massacre of the 1200
Israeli civilians was just the beginning,
just a rehearsal
and that they want to continue to do it
over and over again.
So a cease fire would keep
that brutal
terrorist regime in place and in Gaza.
I don't think that's true.
I think that what is true
is that Hamas needs to be taken out.
It is a terrorist. I want to do that.
But I think the way to do that,
as many terrorism experts have said,
is to create a durable
and strong coalition of allies
within the Middle East.
With the United States,
with Israel,
to make sure that we have a long
term political solution,
that there is an alternative to Hamas
to lead
in Gaza
and to establish
a state for Palestinians.
This is I mean, we cannot
we have to condemn
what Hamas did on October 7th.
We cannot allow now
for 15,000 Palestinians to date
to have been killed,
three quarters of whom
are women and children,
and say that that is going to help us.
And we can't listen
morally, Donna, morally,
but also strategically for Israel.
The only way through
this is to create a situation
where there is a political solution
that involves a Palestinian state
and an Israeli.
I think ideally what you're talking about
could make sense.
It's just unclear
how you get from here to there.
Who's going to get rid of Hamas?
If, if, if, if
if there's no continued war?
And I think what you're relying on is
the pressure from Arab states
and they haven't been willing.
It's not just that.
Well, part of the reason
they haven't been willing to do that
is because we have been allowing Israel
to literally indiscriminately bomb
hospitals, violate
international humanitarian law.
And so we are creating an October,
even pre October 7th.
Can I just ask you
one more thing about that?
You have seen the information,
intelligence that Hamas
has used, its own civilians,
the death of civilians.
Ah, it's horrendous.
But Hamas has used its own civilians
as human shields.
Those hospitals
and so forth are places where Hamas keeps
weapons and keeps its
civilians.
It's Hamas leadership
that they had their headquarters there.
Diana, international humanitarian law
says that you cannot attack a hospital
unless there is
there are some circumstances
if if rockets are fired
from that hospital, that is one thing.
But hospitals are protected.
We have had refugee camps that are bombed
right now.
There are
even the only pediatric
hospital in Gaza is not operating.
If we want to defeat terrorists,
we have to
abide by international humanitarian law.
That is just my fundamental beliefs
and that at the end of the day,
what we need is a lasting coalition
that is not going to be formed
if Israel continues
to do what they are doing
and the United States
cannot be back out of this
kind of indiscriminate bombing.
And that is my firm belief.
We should have conditions on military aid
in the same way that we do
to for every other country.
To ask you about sexual violence and
the it's kind
of remarkable that this issue hasn't
gotten enough attention globally.
Widespread use of rape,
brutal rape,
sexual violence
against Israeli women by Hamas.
I've seen a lot of progressive women,
generally speaking, there,
quick to defend women's rights
and speak out against using rape as a
as a weapon of war,
but downright silent on what we saw
on October 7th
and what might be happening inside Gaza.
Right now to these hostages. Why is that?
I mean, I don't
I don't know that that's true.
I think we always talk about
the impact of war on women in particular.
Fact, I remember 20 years ago,
I did a petition around the war in Iraq.
You said saying they talked about it.
Oh, absolutely.
And I've condemned what Hamas has done.
I've condemned severely
all of the actions.
Absolutely.
The rape, the of course.
But I think we have to remember that
Israel is a democracy
that is why they are a strong
ally of ours.
And if they do not comply
with international humanitarian law,
they are bringing themselves to a place
that makes it much more difficult
strategically for them
to be able to build the kinds of allies
to keep public opinion with them.
And frankly,
morally, I think we cannot say that one
war crime deserves another.
That is not
what international humanitarian law says.
With respect,
I was just asking about the the women
and you turned it back to Israel
I'm asking you about Hamas, in fact.
I already answered your question, Dan.
I said it's horrific.
And I think that rape is horrific.
Sexual assault is horrific.
I think that it happens
in war situations.
Terrorist organizations like Hamas
obviously are using these as tools.
However,
I think we have to be balanced about
bringing in the outrages
against Palestinians.
15,000 Palestinians have been killed
in Israeli airstrikes
three quarters of whom are women.
And it's horrible.
But you don't see Israeli
soldiers raping.
Well, Danny,
I think
we're not we're not
I don't want this to be
the hierarchy of oppression.
I think.
15,000 shouldn't have been killed.
Should. Which is horrible.
2.2 million Palestinians live in 140
square mile area,
which is about the size of Las Vegas,
with a population that is four times
that of Las Vegas.
And and 1.8 million Palestinians
right now are displaced.
They are living in shelters.
They are being told to move
to south Gaza.
Then south Gaza is being bombed.
They're being told to move to north Gaza.
There are no homes left.
The vast majority of infrastructure
has been destroyed.
This is not the way
that we are going to beat terrorism.
Whether it's Hamas or some,
I'm not sure iteration of Hamas.
On that note,
I want to talk about
what this means domestically
for President Biden.
You've warned
that the way
that the
Biden administration,
the president himself
is handling this war jeopardizes
his support among progressives
and Muslim American voters
and that they could actually stay home.
Do you think that that is how.
How big of a threat, political threat
is that to President Biden
in particular,
when it's possible
at this point, probable
that Donald Trump would be his opponent
and he's not exactly
warm when it comes to Muslims?
Yeah, that's an understatement.
Look, I am a supporter
of President Biden.
I have been out there for the president
and I will continue to be,
even though I think that the way
that this
the handling of this war started was
unfortunately such that it has alienated
huge communities.
We have to be realistic about that.
And we have to do work right now
to address that.
Not just with outreach here,
but actually looking at the situation
in the Middle East
and recognizing that Palestinians
deserve the same respect.
Innocent Palestinians
deserve the same respect
as innocent Israelis.